# HTTPS

ghost_man01 | 22 Sept 2021

# Why we need HTTPS

The major drawback of HTTP is it can send data in clear text, meaning that we can perform MITM(Man in the middle) attack to view the transferred data. It’s very dangerous for banking sites or government sites which contain sensitive information.

[[Pasted image 20210922091642.png]]

We use #Tools tools for protocol analyzer like **Wireshark**

These drawbacks give rise to **HTTPS(HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure)**

## What happens when we enable HTTPS

- When we enable HTTPS all communication between the client (user, accessing a web application via web browser) and the web server that hosted the web application is encrypted.
- When HTTPS implemented on web application it’s become impossible for anyone to analyze traffic and capture the information such as credentials and other sensitive information.

Websites enforce HTTPS can be identified through **https://** in the URL as well as lock icon in the address bar, left of the URL.

The default port for HTTPS is 443, which is preferred by browser over HTTP port 80, provide there are no misconfigurations that allow a user that browse an insecure HTTP version of a website instead of the HTTPS version. Running wireshark on HTTPS website will shows us traffic in encrypted form.

[[Pasted image 20210922091445.png]]

In this picture we run Wireshark on https://google.com and the we see traffic is encrypted.

## HTTPS Flow

[[Pasted image 20210922092250.png]]

When we browse http://inlanefrenight.com

- The browser attempts to resolve the domain and redirects the user to the webserver hosting the target website.
- A request is sent to port 80 first which is unencrypted HTTP protocol
- The server detects this and redirects the client to secure HTTPS on port 443
- This is done via **301 moved permanently** response code.
- The Client sends “client Hello” packets giving information about himself.
- The server replies with “server Hello” followed by a **key exchange**.
- The Client verifies this key and send one of it’s own.
- After this, the encrypted handshake is initiated to verify if the encryption and transfer working properly.
- Once the handshake completes successfully, normal HTTP communication which is encrypted thereafter. This is a very high level overview of key exchange.

### Attack

Depending on circumstances an attacker may be able to perform an HTTP **downgrade attack**

### Work

which downgrades HTTPS communication to HTTP.

### How it can be performed

This is done by setting up a MITM and proxying(parsing) all traffic through attacker’s host without the users knowledge.

### Consequences

A successful downgrade attack would result in the clear text transfer of HTTP data, which attacker can log and later examine or manipulate for malicious purpose.

---