# POST METHOD

# POST Method

Unlike GET method, POST places user parameter in an HTTP request body.

## Benefits

**Lack of Logging** : This may sounds like counter-intuitive as logging is generally viewed as a good thing. However, POST requests can handle tasks such as uploading a file or user login. Logging these fields can result in the local disk filling up or password being stored in plaintext. When coming across a login form that accepts logins via a GET request, this should always be **HIGH** finding as it will likely result in credentials being stored in log files.

**Less Encoding Requirements** : URLs are designed to be shared, which means they need to confirm to character that can be converted to letters. The POST request place data in the body which can accept binary data. The only characters that needed to be encoded are those that are used to separate parameters.

**More data can be sent** : The maximum URL length varies between browsers (Chrome,firefox, IE), web servers (Apache, IIS, Nginx), content delivery networks (Fastly, cloudflare, cloudfront) and even URL shorteners(bit.ly or amzn.to). Generally speaking URL’s should be kept to below 2000 characters.

### Important

**Location** header in response code tells about where it’s going to be redirected. When `SET COOKIE` header has PHPSESSID it is apparent that the cookie is a “Session” which is just unique string of characters. Generally speakig, Session Id almost always **hash**, which can be identified by :

- Containing only hexadecimal headers
- Being divisible by 8

Every user of application has unique SESSION id which either map to file or database entry on the server, which stores info about your login. Not all application uses the SESSION id because they want to hold the information about their session. This minimizes the processing power of the webserver as it no longer has thousands of sessions to keep track of.

To do this securely server must cryptographically sign the request and provide the user the hash of the data they hold. Due to user not knowing the singing key used to create the hash, they cannot modify the data. Howerver no signing key is utilized the user can modify the cookie and potentially trick the server into giving them more privileges then intended.

When coming across the cookie that you don’t recognize, it is always important to decode them (base64/URL/etc.) and attempt to modify their values.

## Content Type

The content-type header is the crucial piece to the POST request. This tells the webserver what type of content to expect. Our example is `content-type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded` which tells the server to expect something along the lines of: `ParaName1=Value1&ParaName2=Value`

There are many other content types. Another popular one is `application/json`, which is used for [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) #findit resources. JSON or Java Script Object Notation is simplified way to store and transfer data and is easy to interpret and parse. A json object consist of data-value pairs encoded with braces.

Code: json

```
{ "name1" : "value1", "name2" : "value2" }
```

Multiple libraries and application support json input, including web applications. It’s often possible to alter the content-type and make application parse inputs in different formats.

Changing between URLEncoded and Json may seem meaningless but changing formats may leads to format the developer did not expect.

Many frameworks natively support JSON due to having REST API, which is used when a computer communicates to the webserver versus user. In programming JSON is widely used to format for safely storing objects.

An example of this is performing SQL injection on a MONODB database. To perform an injection the attacker must send an array. An example of doing this with `application/json`:

username=admin&password[$ge]=0, which would attempt to the server tell my username is admin and password is greater than 0. Many webservers will not process the request because using brackets on variable name is not common. However in REST APIs, arrays are common and will not be blocked by the framework. changing the request to :

{ “username” : “admin”, “password” : {“$ge” : “0”} }

will allow for injection if the developer did not protect against it. Content-type modification play a crucial role in finding vulnerabilities and causing unintended bug in web application. However processing various media types depends solely on the application logic and what it expects.